Update F# VSCode docs to be based off modern ionide (#15851)
dotnet/docs: docs/fsharp/get-started/get-started-vscode.md

You can write F# in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) with the [Ionide plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Ionide.Ionide-fsharp) to get a great cross-platform, lightweight Integrated Development Environment (IDE) experience with IntelliSense and code refactorings. Visit [Ionide.io](http://ionide.io) to learn more about the plugin.

To begin, ensure that you have [F# and the Ionide plugin correctly installed](install-fsharp.md#install-f-with-visual-studio-code).

## Create your first project with Ionide

To create a new F# project, open a command-line and create a new project with the .NET CLI:

```console
dotnet new console -lang F# -o FirstIonideProject
```

Once it it completes, change directory to the project and open Visual Studio Code:

```console
cd FirstIonideProject
code .
```

After a short while, you should see the F# Solution Explorer pane on the left-hand side of your window open. This means Ionide has successfully loaded the project you just created. You can write code in the editor before this point in time, but once this happens everything will be loaded.

## Configure F# interactive

> You'll first need to ensure that .NET Core scripting is your default scripting environment.

Reviewer: Maybe we need to add some explanation why this is not default?

---
# Get Started with F# in Visual Studio Code

You can write F# in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) with the [Ionide plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Ionide.Ionide-fsharp) to get a great cross-platform, lightweight Integrated Development Environment (IDE) experience with IntelliSense and code refactorings. Visit [Ionide.io](http://ionide.io) to learn more about the plugin.

To begin, ensure that you have [F# and the Ionide plugin correctly installed](install-fsharp.md#install-f-with-visual-studio-code).

## Create your first project with Ionide

> To create a new F# project, open a command-line and create a new project with the .NET CLI:

Reviewer 2: usually we say a console window or terminal not a command line

```suggestion
To create a new F# project, open a command line and create a new project with the .NET Core CLI:
```

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet new console -lang F# -o FirstIonideProject
```

> Once it it completes, change directory to the project and open Visual Studio Code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once it completes, change directory to the project and open Visual Studio Code:
```

```console
cd FirstIonideProject
code .
```

> After a short while, you should see the F# Solution Explorer pane on the left-hand side of your window open. This means Ionide has successfully loaded the project you just created. You can write code in the editor before this point in time, but once this happens everything will be loaded.

Reviewer 2: Seems a bit strange to give a time metric. Perhaps:

```suggestion
After the project loads on Visual Studio Code, you should see the F# Solution Explorer pane on the left-hand side of your window open. This means Ionide has successfully loaded the project you just created. You can write code in the editor before this point in time, but once this happens, everything has finished loading.
```

## Configure F# interactive

> You'll first need to ensure that .NET Core scripting is your default scripting environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure that .NET Core scripting is your default scripting environment:
```

> 1. Open the Visual Studio Code settings (**Code > Preferences > Settings**).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Visual Studio Code settings (**Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings**).
```

1. Search for the term **F# Script**.
1. Click the checkbox that says **FSharp: use SDK scripts**.

> This is currently necessary due to some legacy behaviors in .NET Framework-based scripting that do not work with .NET Core scripting, and Ionide is currently striving for that backwards compatibility. In the future, .NET Core scripting will become the default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is currently necessary due to some legacy behaviors in .NET Framework-based scripting that don't work with .NET Core scripting, and Ionide is currently striving for that backwards compatibility. In the future, .NET Core scripting will become the default.
```

Reviewer 2: Could potentially be in a note?

### Write your first script

> Once you've configured Visual Studio Code to use .NET Core scripting, navigate to the Explorer view in Visual Studio code and create a new file. Name it `MyFirstScript.fsx`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've configured Visual Studio Code to use .NET Core scripting, navigate to the Explorer view in Visual Studio Code and create a new file. Name it *MyFirstScript.fsx*.
```

Now add the following code to it:

[!code-fsharp[ToPigLatin](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/getting-started/to-pig-latin.fsx)]

This function converts a word to a form of [Pig Latin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pig_Latin). The next step is to evaluate it using F# Interactive (FSI).

> Highlight the entire function (it should be 11 lines long). Once it is highlighted, hold the **Alt** key and hit **Enter**. You'll notice a terminal window pop up below, and it should show something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Highlight the entire function (it should be 11 lines long). Once it's highlighted, hold the **Alt** key and hit **Enter**. You'll notice a terminal window pop up on the bottom of the screen, and it should look similar to this:
```

## Turn the console app into a Pig Latin generator

The previous sections in this article demonstrated a common first step in writing F# code: writing an initial function and executing it interactively with FSI. This is known as REPL-driven development, where [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop) stands for "Read-Evaluate-Print Loop". It's a great way to experiment with functionality until you have something working.

The next step in REPL-driven development is to move working code into an F# implementation file. It can then be compiled by the F# compiler into an assembly that can be executed.

To begin, open `Program.fs` file that you created earlier with the .NET CLI.  You'll notice that some code is already in there.

Next, create a new [`module`](../language-reference/modules.md) called `PigLatin` and copy the `toPigLatin` function you created earlier into it as such:

[!code-fsharp[ToPigLatin](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/getting-started/pig-latin.fs#L1-L14)]

> This module should be above the `main` function and below the `open System` declaration.

Reviewer: Maybe some additional note about order of declarations being important in F#?

```fsharp
[<EntryPoint>]
let main argv =
    for name in argv do
        let newName = PigLatin.toPigLatin name
        printfn "%s in Pig Latin is: %s" name newName
```

Now you can run your console app from the command line:

```console
dotnet run apple banana
```

And you'll see that it outputs the same result as your script file, but this time as a running program!

## Troubleshooting Ionide

Here are a few ways you can troubleshoot certain problems that you might run into:

1. To get the code editing features of Ionide, your F# files need to be saved to disk and inside of a folder that is open in the Visual Studio Code workspace.
1. If you've made changes to your system or installed Ionide prerequisites with Visual Studio Code open, restart Visual Studio Code.
1. If you have invalid characters in your project directories, Ionide might not work.  Rename your project directories if this is the case.
1. If none of the Ionide commands are working, check your [Visual Studio Code keybindings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/customization/keybindings#_customizing-shortcuts) to see if you're overriding them by accident.

> 1. If Ionide is broken on your machine and none of the above has fixed your problem, try removing the `ionide-fsharp` directory on your machine and reinstall the plugin suite.

Reviewer: Add a point about checking if project is successfully loaded, and ability to right click -> see details when project loading failed to get info about the problem

> Ionide is an open source project built and maintained by members of the F# community. Please report issues and feel free to contribute at the [ionide-vscode-fsharp GitHub repository](https://github.com/ionide/ionide-vscode-fsharp).

Reviewer: Mentioning Open Collective would be too much, wouldn’t it?

Author: Probably, yes.

There's one final thing to notice about this: there's no explicit instruction to return from the function, unlike many other languages out there. This is because F# is Expression-based, and the last expression in the body of a function is the return value. Because `if..then..else` is itself an expression, the body of the `then` block or the body of the `else` block will be returned depending on the input value.

## Turn the console app into a Pig Latin generator

The previous sections in this article demonstrated a common first step in writing F# code: writing an initial function and executing it interactively with FSI. This is known as REPL-driven development, where [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop) stands for "Read-Evaluate-Print Loop". It's a great way to experiment with functionality until you have something working.

The next step in REPL-driven development is to move working code into an F# implementation file. It can then be compiled by the F# compiler into an assembly that can be executed.

> To begin, open `Program.fs` file that you created earlier with the .NET CLI.  You'll notice that some code is already in there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To begin, open the *Program.fs* file that you created earlier with the .NET Core CLI. You'll notice that some code is already in there.
```
